---
layout: post
title: Testing Update Title
description: This is a test to see post
permalink: blogs/10022021
images: 
    cover: /assets/10022021b-cover.png
    top: /assets/10022021b-top.jpg 
tags: [blog, life, habbit, self-help, frustration ]
mathjax: false 
---

# GODDAMMIT, I'M WRITING A BLOG.

I have made anythings before in the past: videos, blogs, art, etc. However, I always stop doing it entirely or go back to private them. This absolutely sucks and in this blog I will present some of the reasons behind it, my strategies to fight back those reasons and some of the advantages that I might gain from doing so.

## "Why write the blog when you have nothing to say?" and other insecurities.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This question has haunted me for years. I have always thought that I'm a creative person who likes to make things and share those things with other. However, everytime I go back to the blank page, ready to write what I have to say about what I have on my mind, I am struck by insecurities that I never know I had: "I'm writing whatever I read, so what does it makes me entitled to write this blog? I can just link what ever that I read to others","What if my writing sucks and no one cares what I have to say?", "What if this effect my future in the sense that people might use what I said years ago to attack me?" All of these and more plague my mind and paralyzed me from even writing. By the time I have consider all the pros and cons of writing the blog, I have already lost interest in writing the blog itself. This cycle of having something interesting in mind just so doubts can later ruin it has left me not only find it increasingly more difficult to create anything but slowly lose interest in things that I used to love. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;So, is that it? The vicious cycle of don't know what to do and too scared to do so is the end for all creative pursuits? So you can't ever create/make anything cause nobody cares what you have to say and what you "create" was simply a collection of what you learned? No. How so? This. Yes. The only solution to break the cycle is to stop overthinking and actually make it. The jump is difficult and as of yesterday, Feb 17th 2021, it was even considered as impossible! However, I think forcing myself to say will build the habbit of presenting my work and thus pushing the doubts and fears any from the creative process for good. For good measure, here is an attempt answer to all insecurities that I had once had and might still have:

- **Nobody cares!**  That's actually good, the less people read my embassasing stuff the better!
- **Why do you think you're so important?** This one the the exact opposite to the other one but somehow both of them seems to be the some question about ego lol. I have never have the intention of being "better" than anyone else, I just make things that I think are cool :<
- **Why are you so pretencious?** I have never try to be so, but if I sound so then so be it. I'm dumb and I say dumb stuff all the time.
- **I have already seen these a thousand times what makes you think you're so entitled to these ideas that you could just copy others and label it yours?** Well, I am simply sharing what I have learned, the only interesting and unexpecting stuff that I found could only comes others but I always cite them if it comes from them (as anyone should.)
- **This is kinda cringe** I know T T bare with me.
- **YOU ARE WRONG!!!** Thanks for pointing it out, I'm not an expert in anything and will never be. I'm learning and sharing what I have learnt. What I have made could be right or wrong in the future but it will definitely helps me document myself and build a healthy habbit of presenting myself.
- **Uninteresting, unreadable!** Well seems like you don't have any interest in what I have to say. But that doesn't mean that other won't. I think creating something will benefits others who have interests in it more than peeps who find it boring.
- **I WILL COME AND KILL YOU CAUSE YOU DISAGREE WITH ME** please don't :,( I'm sure we can agree on something else.
- **Insecure much?** yes... it is hard but I will try to overcome it :,)

I will make sure to update this lists when I can come up with more answers or stumble upon more doubts :D!

## Building habits for self-discovery nurturing hobbies

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cool! Now we got all the negative thoughts out of our head, let's talk about getting some jUiCe. First thing to consider doing this is that it's **it IS a habbit**. Not some dumb short-term thingie that people come up with in their new years resolution just to abandon it a month later. I don't want to bring up some pretencious self-help tips that would tell you how building a habbit can *save your marriage, cure cancer and literally end all the misery in this world*. I would, however, agree that getting a systematic lifestyle can slim down all the useless nuances in life just to reveal the JUICY, muscular, carve in stone *compounding skill*. Not all habits are good * cough * **reading self-help to feel hopeful just to collapse back * *cough* *, some good habit can even be compounding! Actually, I believe that, if a habit is not compounding it might not good at all :(. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ok, we know these social construct that is habits, how would that connects to writing a blog? Well, it actually can be any sort of creative work. As mentioned before, I have try out many creative pursuits: music, art, movie making, making comics, writing, programming, etc. but music, art and similar hobbies are locked down. When you want to draw something, you pick up your tools and draw it. Music? compose it, learn it, play it! They don't often allow other creative processes to be entangled with. With making videos, it does offer that extra dimension of freedom for you to just go wild in displaying what ever you have in mind on the screen. But with that, it require extra cares, time and other resources to make, rendering it too hard to become a habit without burning me out. So, here we are, finding out that writing is the perfect medium for me to post art and talk about it, document many things I find neat and interesting in life while just light enough for me to keep it up.

   For the sake of keeping this short and simple, here is another list of positive reasons why I or even you should keep writing blog:

- **venting**: When you are moved by a picture, movie or perhaps a song, writing it out and reading it later is proven to be a powerful to know what kind of person you are
- **Easier for stranger to approach you**: one of the methods that I use to approach people is that I first look up their information first, then tailor my first conversation with them around the topics which I know they would be interested in. By putting this out there, I hope the power of the mighty internet god will take this to other interesting peeps out there as well.
- **A Business Investment**: if there is one thing that I would try to avoid, that would be business. But if I were to change my mind, this would become quite handy later on. If not, then it doesn't matter much lol.

similar to the other list, I will keep adding/subtracting things as time passes. (that is, if I were to remember to do so...)

## Let's get down to business!

I'm mainly writing this for myself, but if anyone finds it useful for fun then hope you can be most productive and creative you! 

-  written with <3 by Hieu.